---
layout: post
title: "Digital Inclusion Festival 2019"
date: 2019-07-03
permalink: /resource-room/events/di-fest-2019/
breadcrumb: Digital Inclusion Festival 2019
---

Date: 26 to 28 July 2019<br>
Time: 10am to 6pm<br>
Venue: Lifelong Learning Institute, 11 Eunos Road 8, S408601<br>
Admission is Free! 

Are you ready for the digital future? To gain access and embrace a digital lifestyle, join us at the Digital Inclusion Festival to explore and discover how technology will bring you greater convenience and accessibility in your daily life!

The inaugural Digital Inclusion Festival, organised by the Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA), will kick off on 26 July and will be held over three days at the Lifelong Learning Institute. The three-day event will be buzzing with interesting tech showcases, free hourly tutorials, hands-on workshops and interactive activities for everyone to learn, have fun and experience the digital future.

To ensure that no one is left behind by digitalisation, the IMDA’s Digital Inclusion Festival aims to bring together everyone who would like to embrace technology and be digitally ready to enjoy the benefits afforded by digital technology. There will be fun and engaging tutorials for elderly to pick up basic digital skills, meaningful workshops for Person with Disabilities (PWDs) to discover how tech can aid in accessibility and thematic booths to help you adopt technology. The topics include e-Payment, e-Shopping, Cybersecurity and more. In addition, there are cool and fun activities such as 3D printing and Virtual Reality Games to keep you entertained. There’s plenty for everyone, so visit the Digital Inclusion Festival to start your digital journey and discover the wonders of being digitally competent.

For more information, [click here](https://www2.imda.gov.sg/news-and-events/our-signature-events/Digital-Inclusion-Festival){:target="_blank"}
